California at San Diego a good idea for Scripps
Institution?
I guess my opinion about that has had a lot of ups and
downs. I think in the long run, yes. It was, well,
perhaps one shouldn't say good or bad. It was sort
of inevitable. The Scripps Institution was part
of the University of California, and as long as it
is to remain a part of the university, it would have
been silly, I think, to consider establishing a
part of the university here in San Diego and not
having it be tightly coordinated with Scripps. As
it turned out, I think that the existence of
Scripps made it possible for us to build a very
strong science faculty quite rapidly. The other
parts of the University of California, the new
campuses of that same era, have not achieved
anything like the scientific
eminence that the San Diego campus has. We're
right up there pushing along with Berkeley and Los
Angeles, in spite of the fact that we're only about
a third as big. And I think in large measure this was
due to Revell as an individual, but also due to the
kind of high grade science community that we had
here in the specialized realm of the ocean. And a
number of well-recognized people like Eckhart
obviously made it easier to recruit good
physicists to come. They thought, you know, it was
no sin to go to San Diego to work with Carl Eckhart
and survive. And so I think that was a big help. As
director and then, well, primarily as director at
Scripps Institution of Motionography, and your
responsibility in terms of recruiting students
and recruiting faculty members, did you feel as if
the prestige of the institution allowed you to
have sort of a choice of the upper echelon of
science and students? I think in the case of
students,
for a very long time, Scripps Institution was the
place. If you wanted to do graduate work in
oceanography, there was no question that it was
the outstanding place to go. As the world has
developed, other places have grown too, and I
think that the other two places that really
compete strongly with us now are the MIT Woods Hole
Complex and the Columbia University. Those are
the other two that we battle with occasionally
these days for the best of the incoming students.
In terms of recruiting staff, that's again a
kind of
a place in which we do not have too much trouble.
Again, we do indeed compete primarily with MIT and
Columbia. particularly the MIT group in geology,
geophysics, geophysics side of the world
particularly. They provided some fairly
formidable competition. You were asking about
whether the development of the university or the
full-scale campus here was something that I
thought was good or bad. It had a very interesting
effect on the Scripps Institution in this period
in which I had to sit in the director's seat,
because that was a period of some really deep
soul-searching on the part of a lot of people in the
Scripps Institution. As the new people arrived in
science, there was a very strong sort of
centrifugal effect that all of a sudden here were
eminent chemists, eminent physicists, and so
forth. And if you looked around, you could see the
physicists and the chemists in the institution
beginning to think less about the ocean and about
working together to solve the ocean's problems
than about what kind of interaction they were
having with the physicists or with the chemists,
the people in their own disciplines. Because
we've been living in a kind of vacuum with regard to
that for many years. And so there was a strong
centrifugal effect. And I felt the main thing that
I really had to work at while I was director was the
business of just keeping the institutions from
flying apart. Gradually this wore off and we went
through a completely different stage some
several years later in which the problems of
general education and things like this, people
who had had the luxury in earlier times of being
able to specialize in not have to interact with too
big a group, and all that sort of thing. These
problems began to overwhelm people, and there was
a great rush back toward the Scripps Institution
in the late 60s. In fact, there were people on the
upper campus, as we call it, the general campus,
who wanted to join the rush. And there was a
department, a whole department, the earth
sciences department, which had been built within
the first college up on the UCSD general campus.
The science department staffed about half with
Scripps people, and the other half with new
recruits from various distinguished places. And
that department just claimed completely COVID,
and all of the people dashed back to the Scripps
Institution because their interests were with
really doing oceanographic research. And I guess
this is the place that underscores the fact that
Scripps is a sort of anomalous place in the
University of California. It's a research
institution with graduate educational
responsibilities and public service
responsibilities. This is a very, there is
another part of the University of California that
is built like this. And this means that we really
are forever, every time there's a change in
administration, a new chancellor on this campus
or a new president of a statewide organization, we
spend some fair amount of time having to go through
indoctrination kinds of things to remind these
people that this is, that the Scripps Institution
part is not your conventional, it's neither a
conventional university research institute,
nor is it a conventional university department.
and it sort of sits in between these. It's far more a
research organization and, however, it's also a
public service organization. And the University
of California, in the basic documentation that
talks about what is the mission and the goal and so
on, and what kinds of contributions do they expect
faculty members to make, The three things that are
brought forward are teaching, research, and
public service. This third item is much more of a
factor, I think, in a state university than in a
place like Harvard, and really dates back to the
days of the agricultural impact and all that sort
of thing. But Scripps Institution has much more of
the flavor of this public service plan than other
parts of the university. and, in fact, is in major
part, as far as university support, is funded out
of the same budget as the budget that supports much
of the agricultural research and so forth, the
organized research budget, so-called, of the
university as opposed to the
instruction budget. When you become chairman of
the Oceanography Department, Does that really
change your role at all in Scripps Institution?
Yeah, yeah. Well, I was chairman of the
Oceanography Department back in 1963 or 4. I gave,
I passed that along to somebody else when I went
back to being director of Scripps again.
In the interim between, in the late 60s, that
department was reorganized, combined with the
marine biology curriculum that we'd had, and this
previously existing earth sciences department,
and we established a thing that we decided we would
call the Graduate Department of the Scripps
Institution of Oceanography, which essentially
is an organizational entity that looks out for the
students in a sort of formalistic way. The
students, since these are all graduate students
and nearly all PhD type, the students have to
become involved in research. And that
involvement has to work through the research
administering subdivisions of the institution.
The laboratories like the Marine Physical
Laboratory, the research divisions, that sort of
thing. But what we had found out in the early 60s was
that if we didn't have somebody who was charged
with seeing that the students in fact had some
financial support, and that they, in fact, moved
fruitfully toward finishing their degrees as
opposed to getting research done. Those are two
rather different things. That we would have
students who were around for eight or ten years,
and as oceanography became more widely known in
the 60s, the number of applicants went up, and it
became clear that, you know, there was no way you
could take in numbers of people who were applying
and expect them all to stay around for six or eight
years. In fact, there was no reason for them to stay
around that long. So we established this
departmental structure, which then sees that
students take their qualifying examinations at
reasonable times and
the committees are properly appointed and things
of that sort. And essentially I took over the
responsibility of the chairmanship of that
department just this last January, so I'm doing
essentially a second tour as department
chairman. It does change your role because it
means that, or it adds to your role I suppose,
because I didn't drop any responsibilities when I
took on this one, in that you have to
think about the role of the institution in a
different way, in terms of what kind of a
contribution it's making specifically to the
students, as opposed to what kind of contribution
it's making to Oceania. Now, when your scientific
liaison officer for Western Europe, what does
that mean? That was an interesting interview.
The Office of Naval Research
has been overall a very enlightened
organization. It really started out right after
World War II as the only really effective
supporter of research in the United States. And
that role is no longer its role anymore. The
National Science Foundation has grown in
strength and purpose and capability. But one of
the things that the Office of Naval Research did,
starting right after World War II, was it
established an office in London whose initial
goal was to help scientists on the European
continent to get back in action after World War II.
And it was pretty successful in doing this, partly
by providing communication and liaison, finding
out where people were, providing some monetary
support. equipment and things of this kind that
went on for several years and then of course the
scientific community in europe became its own
community again and but the navy decided that it
would be useful to maintain for the benefit really
of the entire u.s scientific community some kind
of liaison with the european community so that
this london office stayed in existence staffed by
people who are scientists on leave from various
universities or government laboratories,
whatever the typical duration of tour might be.
Well, we'd like them to be two years or something
like that. In recent times, it's been difficult to
get people to go for that long. When you go over
there, the aim of the game is, in fact, to make
contact with as many people as you can throughout
Europe and in whatever your field may be. go visit
them, learn about what they're doing, but also to
help them to find out what's going on in the United
States. So it's sort of a two-way street, and you
don't go out visiting without providing
something in return. Make a seminar of your own
while you're there, or a great deal of helping
people to be in touch with particularly the sort of
gray literature that most of the scientists in
Europe are just as good as we are about reading and
reading publications, but they don't always have
access to reports that are done within ONR
contracts or NASA contracts or something like
that, which sometimes have very useful
information in them, but which are not always
easily accessible to people in the European
community. And so one of the ways that you can help
people over there is to put them in touch with that
sort of thing, with other people in the United
States who are working on things that seem to be
similar to theirs. And I went over there in the
summer of 74 and came back in the fall of 75. In my
case it was particularly nice because it was a
chance to expand a little bit on my areas of
interest. I was the only person on the staff for
most of that grade, either in acoustics or in
oceanography, which meant that I could go around
and see what was going on in acoustics and
diagnosis in hospitals and things like this, or go
out and see what was going on in fisheries research
and things that I have a marginal interest in but
don't always have much time to keep track of when
I'm involved here. The Conrad Award for
Contribution to the Navy Science Program in 74.
For what was that given? Good behavior. That's an
award that is handed out by the Navy to people who
played a role, not necessarily as individual
research people, but in management was not really
quite the right word either. Pulling together,
stimulating, seeing that the research goes
forward in a fruitful way, in a way that's fruitful
to the Navy. And it's an award that over the years
has been given to directors of Navy laboratories
on occasion, directors of research groups, an
occasional admiral during there who's run a major
program or made major contributions to research
activity. his vibratory and physical vibratory
had been successful enough within the, oh, in
honor of context, over the years that eventually
it got to be enough, but I decided to give him that.
Oh, what about the award from the Franklin
Institute in 1965? That was a different kind of
thing. It was really related to Flip,
which is a vehicle that I had. bringing
into reality. It was recognition for, well, it's
like a lot of other medals. It's hard in science
these days to give a medal to a person, because in
general, you don't do anything alone. And in fact,
in this particular instance, I guess the main
thing I can say is that I raised the money, and did
some of the design calculations, and I guess I
wasn't the only doer by any means, but I suppose I
was the leader in getting it done. He worked in the
laboratory. That was a craft that was a lot of fun to
do and has been an important tool for carrying
out quite a wide range of research things and it
grew out of a Navy program which
was a part and you could see that there was a role
that our laboratory could play and we sort of
visualized this craft
to take out to sea and well I mentioned the fact that
we used to go to sea in submarines to hold
hydrophones nice and still well once we got a flip
we stopped going to sea in submarines because we
could hang the hydrophones nice and still in the
water and there wouldn't be about half a dozen of us
out there scientists and even half a dozen crewmen
instead of half a dozen scientists and 80 to 100
crewmen, which you generally have in an ordinary
military submarine. So it was really a pretty good
sort of thing. What exactly was the elevation?
Well, it was, the idea was to provide a platform
which would sit stably in the ocean and We were
initially studying a thing that's kind of like the
twinkling of stars, namely the fluctuations in
apparent direction of a variety of sound as it's
transmitted through the water. And so what we
wanted was a place where we could mount
hydrophones down well within the water column, in
this case down inside 300 feet, which is as far as
the bottom of the cliff. And then one could go off in
the distance and hang a sound source down from a
ship And you could sight from up at the top out in the
air, you could sight off to where the sound source
was. At the same time you could determine the
direction of the arrival of the sound and how that
direction fluctuated back and forth because of
the smaller temperature differences within the
ocean. And so it gave us this kind of a rigid
structure and as with other things we've done, the
idea was to see if we could put something together
that would solve one problem but would be flexible
enough that it could solve a bunch of other
problems later on that we only vaguely have a sense
of. And in fact, it's been pretty successful in
that regard. It's a good thing for hanging things
down quietly.
Now, it's been suggested at least that Dr. The 60s
were in effect, particularly the middle to late
60s, were sort of an age of invention which brought
together all kinds of techniques to sending
oceanographers out to sea. This may be over, that
oceanography may now revert to having more and
more work done in the lab and a systematic work with
the data already produced. Would you agree with
this?
To some extent this has to be true. Partly because
communication has become so much better and we've
developed or are in the process of developing ways
of looking at some aspects of the ocean anyway.
Using things like satellites for example where it
really
you might just as well be sitting in your lab as any
place else. It doesn't mean you're going to get to
be on a ship if you're going to use satellite data.
It's going to come pouring down out of the sky by
whatever radio link it uses. And you're going to
sit at home near your computer and try to
understand what that information means. I think,
on the other hand, there is much, in some ways,
there is less working
in the data manipulation business after an
operation is over. It used to be that you'd go out
and make some measurements and you had to come home
and work those over very, very heavily before you
could write a paper. ability to take computers to
sea with us, and to take more sophisticated
instruments for doing chemical analyses, and
whatever, also, has meant that the turnaround
time for a problem of a given level of complexity is
going to be a lot shorter. So you have these two
things kind of working against one another when
you try to guess what the oceanographer of the
future is going to do as far as going to sea. On the
one hand, he has the capability to go to sea and get
his data in shape to draw some conclusions a lot
faster than he could before. So his turnaround
time to get ready to go back out to sea and find
something else has increased. In fact, almost the
limiting factor there is the publication time or
something of this kind, because the granting
agencies like to see something in hard print
before they like to keep on funding you to go on off
for the next trip. And yet the early part of the data
analysis can go very, very fast. So if there's that
working against the fact that there are other
buoys, satellites, and things of this kind that
make it possible to do perfectly good
oceanography without ever running out of our ship
at all. Okay. What particular problems in the
immediate future do you see oceanography
addressing itself to? I don't know.
There's two kinds of problems.
scientific problems. And here I guess
the air-sea interaction problem is a major one
that is attracting a lot of attention and is going
to require a lot more attention before it really is
solved.
Biological questions still remain kind of
elusive in terms of what we can do about them.
Geology, geophysics part has benefited greatly
from improved
instrumentation, ability to make measurements
that are relevant. in quite a variety of ways. And
the geologists who 10 or 15 years ago played just
qualitative games and looked at rocks and things
like this now know as much geophysics as
geophysicists do in many instances. And it's hard
to draw the line. And they've learned to work with
sophisticated instrumentation and draw
conclusions from this in conjunction with
whatever things you do with actual samples. the
biologists haven't gotten quite around to this
place yet partly because it's not as easy to solve
their problems with the instrumentation side of
the game because at least you know where the sea
floor is and it's likely to stay there it's only
going to move a few centimeters per year or
something of this kind whereas the biological
situation will change very rapidly it changes
and rapidly in both space and time. The question of
patchiness of distribution of animals in the sea,
plants and animals, why this occurs, what kinds of
scales, and how much of this is behavioral, how
much of it is hydrodynamic, things of this kind.
These are all the questions
that I think remain to be answered.
There is a question in sort of sociological terms,
I suppose, as to
who wants to know about the ocean anyway, sort of,
you know?
The biological situation often is justified in
people's minds by fisheries-type activities.
Really, and that's a perfectly good
justification in its own way. The question of what
level of research activity you can justify,
however, is a different
one. And this is why I think that some other aspects
than the fisheries are beginning to drive the
biological situation in the sense that people
would like to know if you spill a bunch of oil out of a
ship, what's that going to do to the biological
situation in the sea? A supertanker full of oil
represents as much money as an awful lot of
fishing. And so, although the the destruction of
life in the sea or something like that is
approached on a sort of aesthetic basis almost.
The question of whether people are going to exact
retribution from oil tanker drivers who do
pollute the ocean. If they are, then there has to be
a lot more argument about marine biology involved
in all that. So the tanker drivers and oil
companies are going to claim that, in fact, you
know, I haven't been in the ocean anyway.
And the amounts of money that are going to be
involved between governments trying to just
maintain those... the nice values of life. You may
all get involved in more money than you didn't
think of in the fisheries business. And finally,
where do you think your career is going to go? I
don't know. I have a couple of, some research
things that I hope I'll be able to work on.
seem to me to be interesting whether
I can convince other people that they're
interesting enough to fund them. That's another
kind of thing I'd like to do. So I'm very careful
measuring the displacement of the floor of the
ocean. The plate tectonics model that has come out
of recent geology and geophysics certainly says
that the pieces of the crust of the earth are
sliding around people are beginning
to be able to measure these motions directly on
land, like on the San Andreas Fault, or in Iceland,
when the spreading centers come up to the sea
surface. And I'd like to go ahead and make some
measurements of this kind on the deep sea floor,
spreading centers. This, I think,
is within the realm of technology. Also,
I'm getting
to
a place where I probably have to think rather more
about looking perhaps at a broader picture, and
I've tried to look at a broader picture for a long
time, but I think the question of interactions
outside of the sphere of just this laboratory and
this institution There
are numerous opportunities and other kinds of
things in that area. Perhaps that will happen.